<!--
© 2021-2022 Marco Bresciani

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved.
This file is offered as-is, without any warranty.

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021-2022 Marco Bresciani

SPDX-License-Identifier: FSFAP
-->
# ADR 005: Rules of Releases Versioning

## Context
In the world of software management there exists a dreaded place called
"dependency hell."
The bigger your system grows and the more packages you integrate into
your software, the more likely you are to find yourself, one day, in
this pit of despair.

In systems with many dependencies, releasing new package versions can
quickly become a nightmare.
If the dependency specifications are too tight, you are in danger of
version lock (the inability to upgrade a package without having to
release new versions of every dependent package).
If dependencies are specified too loosely, you will inevitably be bitten
by version promiscuity (assuming compatibility with more future versions
than is reasonable).
Dependency hell is where you are when version lock and/or version
promiscuity prevent you from easily and safely moving your project
forward.

## Decision
As a solution to this problem, I propose a simple set of rules and
requirements that dictate how version numbers are assigned and
incremented.
These rules are based on but not necessarily limited to pre-existing
widespread common practices in use in both closed and open-source
software.
For this system to work, you first need to declare a public API.
This may consist of documentation or be enforced by the code itself.
Regardless, it is important that this API be clear and precise.
Once you identify your public API, you communicate changes to it with
specific increments to your version number.
Consider a version format of X.Y.Z (Major.Minor.Patch).
Bug fixes not affecting the API increment the patch version, backwards
compatible API additions/changes increment the minor version, and
backwards incompatible API changes increment the major version.

I call this system "Semantic Versioning."
Under this scheme, version numbers and the way they change convey
meaning about the underlying code and what has been modified from one
version to the next.

## Status
Accepted.

## Consequences
As a responsible developer you will, of course, want to verify that any
package upgrades function as advertised.
The real world is a messy place; there's nothing we can do about that
but be vigilant.
What you can do is let Semantic Versioning provide you with a sane way
to release and upgrade packages without having to roll new versions of
dependent packages, saving you time and hassle.

If all of this sounds desirable, all you need to do to start using
Semantic Versioning is to declare that you are doing so and then follow
the rules.
Link to this website from your README so others know the rules and can
benefit from them.
