<!--
© 2021-2022 Marco Bresciani

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved.
This file is offered as-is, without any warranty.

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021-2022 Marco Bresciani

SPDX-License-Identifier: FSFAP
-->
# ADR 002: EditorConfig

## Context
We all know that conventions when writing code are important.

But we also know that every developer has his ego and his preferences:
just look for a minute on the Internet to find the so-called flame wars
between Emacs supporters against those of Vi or those against tabs of
the spaces to induce the code, challenges between IntelliJ IDEA and
Eclipse or Windows against GNU / Linux.

At least in the context of the main choices in writing the code,
however, there is the possibility of choosing and standardizing these
choices with a transversal solution compared to all many editors and
modern development environments.
This solution is called [EditorConfig](https://editorconfig.org/).

Why should you use an EditorConfig file in your project?
Let's face it.
It's 2019 and many of us are still fighting between tabs and spaces
instead of thinking about the quality of the code and its features!

Nobody really cares (much ...) about the style of code used, the main
concern is to choose one for the project that should be used
consistently throughout the project code.
It's your project, you can define your own rules.
And anyone who contributes will adhere to these rules.
Spaces tabs must be managed by the editor, not by people and this is
where EditorConfig files come into play.
All you need to do is insert a `.editorconfig` file into the project.
In this file, you insert some (few) lines that define the configuration
for the current project and the editor only applies these settings for
this project.

This is a very useful technique for people working in large groups with
different favorite editors.
This allows everyone to have consistent coding styles across all
editors.

You can choose the style of indentation (tab or spaces), you can choose
the size of the indentation, the type of end of line, the set of
characters to use, ... here is the main page of the EditorConfig
project: https://editorconfig.org/

These might seem trivial when writing code for a large-scale
application.
But having an `.editorconfig` file ensures that these settings accompany
the project in every place where the code is written.
Which in turn ensures that the editor settings do not need to be
optimized to have consistent coding styles.
Some editors support EditorConfig natively.
For most others, there is a plugin that enables EditorConfig support
(see https://editorconfig.org/#download).
Also, you can specify different types of configurations for different
file types and even override the settings for a folder by creating
another `.editorconfig` in that specific folder.
And for the other options to configure, there is a wiki with details on
those possible:
https://github.com/editorconfig/editorconfig/wiki/EditorConfig-Properties

## Decision
[EditorConfig](https://editorconfig.org/) helps developers define and
maintain consistent coding styles between different editors and IDEs.
The EditorConfig project consists of a file format for defining coding
styles and a collection of text editor plugins that enable editors to
read the file format and adhere to defined styles.
EditorConfig files are easily readable and they work nicely with version
control systems.

## Status
Accepted.

## Consequences
The `.editorconfig` file shall be used by all developers of the project
and its checks must be activated in the IDE used by each developer.
